Hello this is Carol from for example dot com and welcome to the 25th tutorial on algorithmic training
for beginners.
In the previous tutorial we talked about the design of our training system and we looked at a diagram
which shows what our program will look like on the inside.
And today we're actually going to start coding our very first picture system.
And so this is a very exciting tutorial.
Basically in a couple of tutorials they will be done and it will be ready to go.
So without further ado let's begin.
And today we're going to be looking at this blue part of our diagram which we discussed last time.
So as you can remember this is our summary diagram for the whole trading strategy and we're going to
be looking at this part which is check time conditions and make sure that this is the first take of
this bar.
So let's go to Mr. Editor and we're no longer going to be working with scripts at this stage.
We're going to be working with experts and we hope that this is a the expert wise which we create in
words troll 21.
That was for demonstration purposes.
And today we'll create a new one expert advisor and this one we will call it a simple system because
our system is fairly simple.
OK.
Finish open that up and we'll just go ahead and delete all of this and we'll know.
Maybe you'll leave the on tick function because we will actually just get rid of the comments.
So this is the Atlantic function as we've discussed previously it will be executed on and on and on
and on with every tick.
We won't be needing to owning it on Dean it functions at this stage.
And let's go back to the diagram and let's go to the detailed version of that diagram and understand
what we're going to be coding today.
So we're going to have to if else conditions we can just check the hour and then we're going to check
our flag which tells us if it was if the current tick is the first take of this hour.
Also we're going to be working off a flag to make sure that its values are correct.
And that's basically it.
Also we're going to be getting this hour from the trader because we want the trader to be able to input
this time.
So let's get started.
First thing we need to get this are from a Trader Joe's line was it was in line and unlike in scripts
we don't need to add that property scripture Jones put because inputs for expert advisors are always
shown shown by default so that's fine.
Well I'm just going to put this back and now we're going to check if the hour is correct.
If it is our hour.
So there is a function in m m call for which is our.
And if we click one and we go to the help the reference will see that our returns the hour our 0 1 2
and so on until 23 of the last known server time.
So basically this is the current hour of trading terminal.
So if that hour is equal to our start our Sumeet meaning if it's a nine note case
in that case we will execute our trading algorithm.
Otherwise we will do what what is prescribed by the diagram in the opposite scenario.
Then we want to see that.
So that was us implementing this bit over here so yes because this way the note goes that way.
Now we want to check if the flag is true.
So first of all we have to introduce a flag and this flag will tell us if this current Take that we
are working with is the very first take of the bar of this hour.
And we want to set it to true initially because of course when the program launches for the first time
that Tich will be the very if it happens to be in this hour it will be the first pick for the hour.
Well the first tick that the program sees and that's what we want.
So now we want to implement a check here.
If they will take this is first take he calls true then this is where implanting this check.
So if it's true the first thing I would do is we set the flag to false we set it to false.
And then what else do we need to do we need to do this box who we're done that we've done that we've
done that we should do this last box.
So if the hours is not nine then set the flag to true the hour is nine.
Is this bit.
That's it for the hour is nine hours not nine hours.
So here we need to set the Flucht false Carol.
Stan sorry to true.
So if the fight are not nice to say that all of these blue bits are done and basically that would have
been it we would have finished with the blueprint here.
But however there is a caveat here.
When the on Tich function executes every time it starts all of its variables are reset and that is basically
a concept which can be which is evident not only in em kill for but it comes back all the way back from
C C++ and all most or basically all the programming languages that I've come across that are functional
programming languages work in the following way that between these two brackets of a function that's
where variables can live.
So this variable is first take.
It is only going to be able to maintain its value whatever value is set.
True.
And then if we sit at fault here we set a tree here.
It will only be able to remember its own value until the end of this function as soon as the function
we leave the function the variable will lose its value will be removed from the stack or it will be
removed from memory.
And then when we go back into the function the variable will be created again and will be reset to the
default value.
And so that's something we haven't discussed before and that was because we didn't really come across
something like that and we didn't require this but now it is going to influence how we structure code.
And why is it going to influence our code.
That's because if we leave everything as is then every time the tick this function is called on and
you tick what will happen is this variable will be recreated with the value for true value.
And that means well if this check goes through this check will always be correct.
And here is where we're going to have the body of the arrhythmic trading system.
So.
And in that case the body of the algorithmic trading system will be always executed.
Probably not but probably core it will always be execute and that's not something we want.
We want this variable to preserve its value even when its execution leaves the optic function comes
back to it afresh.
So there is a keyword in Emco for to do that and it's called static and that does make sense.
It turns this variable from a dynamic route or from a changing variable to a static static variable
which remembers its value even when execution leaves this function.
So you go ahead and compile that no errors or warnings.
And what I always recommend is to check your code and make sure it's working correct.
And you can always do that through the strategy Tester the strategy test.
We won't be discussing strategy tests or in detail here in this course.
I'm working on all the time of recording this video I'm working on a separate course for each strategy
tester which probably now you can find a DVD out for export.
Dot com well at the time when you're watching the video it's probably already there.
But we will use the strategy tested just to make sure that our code is working correctly.
So here will add an alert and I say the first tick of
our So we'll just add this alert and see if it will come up only one time in every time the expert advisor
comes across the bar within the ninth hour or every time an expert adviser comes across a tick.
So compile that will go to the training terminal and the strategy tests so you can it should be able
to find you a simple simple system or here.
Select British pound dollar will select every take visual mode doesn't matter.
The dates don't matter.
Make sure optimization is off.
If you're good.
Sorry if you click expert properties you'll be able to see your inputs here.
Once again this is something we're not going into detail because this is a topic for a separate course
if you just follow the exact same procedures which I'm doing.
You should be able to successfully just see what's happening with your strategy.
So a quick start here.
I'm just going to take the grid off so it's not in our way and you just have to wait a sec wait a bit
while the terminal prepares itself to collect enough data to run the tests so they you it's running.
So right now it's zero clock.
And if you click the journal you'll see all the messages coming from your expert adviser training system.
So I'm just going to speed this up a little bit.
OK.
So here you can see that a take her and message has come through.
And you can see as well that how many ticks they are in every hour so every time the price is moving
that's a new tick in within this hour so even 9:00 there was quite a lot of ticks.
But we only got one message saying first take of our.
And that means that our system is working correctly that means that bit of the code which we saw here
it only got executed once.
Irrespective of the huge number of ticks and that are.
So I hope you followed this tutorial useful and I hope you are able to follow the code if not the source
code is always available at not for export dot com.
And in this tutorial we're going to program the green section.
Well most of the green section and I hope to see you then until the next I'm happy coding.